So let's see how we can filter the data from this data frame object.
Now what is this filtering of a dummy.
So filtering of data means you are trying to grab some data out of your original data set based on some
sort of mathematical or logical condition.
So we are complicit in all kinds of mathematical and logical conditions in Python programming language
or in any other programming language.
Generally we use the operators like a greater than less than equal to or not equate to.
So let's say a religious group to greater than three.
So it will just simply retain me a voice or I would say four is equal to four.
I will use that double equal so because it is a comparison operator.
So it has retained me to say the same operator greater than equal to double equal to.
We are going to use to filter that data.
So I have use the same data frame object and radar data since we find.
And let me just execute it and now let me just print for speed records of the Arctic.
Now you can see we have total 15 columns that are really want.
Now let's filter some data.
So let's say let's say very simple column like a sex column.
So in a sex column B our total two unique values that are really my only male and a female.
So let's try to grab only those records where its value is me.
So we are using the same comparison kind of operator equality companies operator.
So let's grab First the sex column.
So how to select the column we already seen in earlier video.
What the f and now inside the bracket we ought to write the column name which you want to extract and
it will return as the brand new series object which is having not only sex column value.
OK now we how to grab only those where Lubitsch is having a sex well to me so we can use such a kind
of equality operator and then we can just simply pass Laker me now what it will return that this meal
as a string object will be compared with every single value available in a whole dataset of sex column
and variable the value match will be found in that case it will return not true otherwise it will kind
of false.
So after executing this statement also it will return to see this data object and inside the cities
for every single row available in our original dataset it will return true or false based on weather
condition and court match or indeed in God match.
OK so now let me just execute it.
So first let's see our data sets of first four values are our.
So we should return a kind of true.
And then the fifth record is female.
So it should be kind of false.
So let me just execute it.
Oh so something goes wrong here.
So everything is getting false here.
So some things something goes wrong otherwise this syntax are correct.
So let's let's analyze it and what happened here.
So like Let me grab this.
Value see sometimes what happens that this particular column has all those rare liberties having some
sort of trailing spaces are also available in the starting of your string or the ending of the string.
So let's say we are going to use this apply function.
Now we haven't learned about the play function on the top of this data frame object but it will invoke
exactly the same way as we're learning a series object.
So let me just grab this sex column and we're going to use the life function and let's apply the lend
function OK so we'll get that video we hold just for character here or not.
I have a doubt that it may have been net me lot more than four character.
So as I am expected that we have five characters are available here and then the over seven characters
that are available here.
So what we can do we can create one function and we can distribute that all the heading space available
or otherwise.
Let me just collapse it.
So now we got a problem or we can just simply do like a space here.
But this is not a way to go I would suggest to my star as this lecture is all about the filtering of
your data.
Otherwise it will become a little bit longer.
So like just keep space here and let's see whether this is heading space or a trailing space.
OK.
What I expected that we ever want space before this m character and before this I guess the female characters
or let me conform with the female.
So
yes we the over one space extra element.
Now let's concentrate on the male part.
You can remove it some kind of apply function and remove all the stealing and extra space element with
the functions like Ashley Polish trig function.
OK so now we hold Ben the comparison with me and we'll return all those who are loose which is either
false or let me execute it.
So first for values are true.
Now let's assign to some sort of condition.
So let's say.
So I'm assigning two conditions C or n.
OK so see CNN is nothing but noun one city's object was where lose that idea.
True and false.
And this city's object I am just simply going to pass as a bracket notation to the NI f note offering
object.
And now let me just execute it.
So now you can see variable the values are true in those records.
Only it has a return.
So only meal values got return.
See you can very well seat OK so this way you can compare it to a particular value and you can filter
your data.
Let's give some other condition.
OK.
So same statement.
What we have written earlier are two different line.
We can use the same thing into one single line also.
So we can lose like a D F and inside that only you can just simply data conditions rather than putting
all those conditions in two different variables.
So let's try it.
And that will equal two.
OK so you can see we've got exactly the same result only mean data.
It has written a brand new even data frame object so we'll just collected it to me later.
OK.
So now all those matters and everything you can apply on top of this mail data data frame object.
OK let's apply some more filtering condition so rather than sex column let's say each column.
Now instead of just equality operator we can use like a great dane or listed.
So let's say we want to grab only those that code which is having a or all those adult data record was
eight is greater then let's say some property.
OK.
So let's grab it.
So the.
So first we grab the H.
So it has return dates.
Now I am just going to compare every single record available in each column with let's say 50 and variable.
The match will be greater than 50 or value available in this each column will be greater than 15.
Is it 2010.
So section value are covered up for this particular record fourth record which is having a next number
we will get it through.
Otherwise before that all those will voice.
OK.
So that is what we are expecting.
Now we can just simply put this whole can listen inside the bracket notation of this the F object so
variable are only values are true those that currently will get data.
Okay so now you can see all those ages are greater than 50.
So 53 52 54 like me is assigning to some really well let's say big age I will say eight.
OK.
And you can compare that what is the type of this may later.
It is also data free now in the same way that type of this big age.
It is also data free.
So this way you can use the quality condition you can even use the naughty quality conditionals.
So let's say written all those records was it is not 50 Lexi better than greater than 50 is not 50 so
you can use such an I know operator and not 58
OK we've got drizzle easily.
So not 58.
Now you can see every single record it has returned that age is not 50.
OK but be careful while assigning or doing those kind of comparison operation somehow by mistake you
can just simply assign those quantity and value to every single valuable label in that particular column.
So for dead before that only I want your about.
Now we have seen how you can filter the data based on some sort of candies and this is just equivalent
to the very condition if you are already aware about the sequel query language of this sequel database.
OK now we can compare one or more condition together and we can just combine to another.
Believe a logical operators like a hand operation order hoarding operation.
So those things combining multiple filtering condition.
We'll see you next week you.